content/page/november-readings.md, before:

---
title: "November Readings"
date: 2021-12-29T14:33:29+11:00
draft: false
---

# November Readings WIP!

*Brave New World* - **Aldous Huxley** . 
*Aldous Huxley and Utopia (Prisms)* - **Theadore W.Adorno** . 
*See What You Made Me Do* - **Jess Hill**

### **Brave New World - Aldoux Huxley** 

 “Community, Identity, and Stability” this is the Brave New World's answer to the radical bourgeois revolution - not that anyone who exists in this New World understands this deliciously illegal reference - as only very few are even aware of any history (that dangerous stuff - only to be enjoyed like a fine aged Brandy by society's finest).


The New World is some arrangement of a highly centralised State Capitalism. Individuals are subordinate to the 'community' and community is mass participation in consumption and heirarchied work. Division of labour is organised by a globally agreed upon caste system. The fertalising room is our introduction to the biological element of these pillars, then gestation, hatching, the nursery. We then enter the community and already see the conditioning is imperfect - and Soma largely helps tie over that gulf.

Everything is *pneumatic* especially women, but also furniture. Every element have at their core AND OR and XOR logic gates, an appropriate and engineered dynamism.  

Huxley's world is explicit. There are endless mass-produced twins, the mass of people themselves are alike to the products they produce and consume. Their culture and perception neatly standardized. The delivery of the knowledge more formalized than the casual and consentual consumption of these things in the "unfreedom in unrestrained equality" of the old world. 
The New World is unashamed of this - it would be simply inefficient to have it any other way. It's shocking it was ever any other way. 
Instead of cultural norms whispering to us in our dreams, they are *literally* whispered to infants from under their pillows. Instead of lower classes assumed unintelligent due to their lack of access ot education, alcohol and other poisons are poured into their blood surrogates. The lower castes are twins of obsurd quantity - any idea they ever had could never be unique or important, they're all inistinguishable in every sense, colour coded to be sure.

To think there were once mothers and fathers! The Controller can't ask people to imagine, because they can't :

> "The world was full of fathers–was therefore full of misery; full of mothers–therefore of every kind of perversion from sadism to chastity; full of brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts–full of madness and > suicide." ch 3

**Spending Is Better Than Mending**

Our new father is Ford. That antisemitic industrialist who very keenly sought the road to peace and consumer bliss through mass production and consumption. The characters have choice of many different perfumes at any given bathroom and there are plenty of new fashions to adorn - there are only a few sports, highly regulated is the introduction of any new activity. Entertainment is restricted to some synthetic organ that also gives a light show and sometimes fragrances. And Soma, seemingly a mix of MDMA and valium, with no ill side effects, although characters caught offguard without it can't seem to cope with even listening to someone else speak to them. ***A Gram Is Better Than A Damn*** is cheerfully and neurotically expressed if someone appears tired or mildly gloomy, or when Lenina is caught without it having to feel something for once, she repeatedly mutters it like a total psychiatric case. Sex is another appetite to be met regularly surrounded by a strict morality of non-monogamy.

At a social engagement Bernard is asked, did he play electromagnetic golf or obstacle golf earlier? He had to admit he played neither. Highly embarassing to not be engaging in social consumption of people and games alike. The extreme lack of comsumptive choice disguised as choice in BNW is not tiring, though - it's very funny. 

Many elements of the New World have a comedic effect particular to the modern audience. We see our public social media publicised lives and relationships reflected in this work from 1931.
Lenina is routinely disturbed by Bernard wanting to make their plans in private, or spend time one-on-one.

> "Pretty harmless, perhaps; but also pretty disquieting. That mania, to start with, for doing things in private. Which meant, in practice, not doing anything at all. For what was there that one could do in private. (Apart, of course, from going to bed: but one couldn't do that all the time.) Yes, what was > there? Precious little" ch 6

Everything must be public, social a spectical and it must be consumptive, and you must have fun - if you aren't, that's your fault or there must be something wrong with you, possibly in a clinical sense - alcohol in your blood surrogate, perhaps.

**Everyone Belongs To Everyone Else**

The New World sneers at Christianity, it's archaic and illogical and worse of all it is passionate. Passion is ok, in the sense that it is utterly unavoidable (unfortunately) but it must be released in a steady trickle, a sprinkler system with multiple outlets of mist - not a powerful jet. 
There are routine orgys which are the closest thing to a cultural religious experience the youth encounter in the New World. We experience one through Bernard. The Soma is not enough to get him where the others (allegedly) are. He lies. We know the others are lying too. But how can Bernard? Or are they like those apparently happy idiots we sometimes meet? They can't really beleive their own bullshit - why do they insist so aggresively they do? Like Lenina who rocks back and forth saying ***"A Gram Is Better Than A Damn, A Gram Is Better Than A Damn"*** these people are certainly wimpering to themselves ***"Good Vibes Only, Good Vibes Only, Manifest Positive Energy".*** while the world today takes on a more grotesque form by the hour. 

Our comfort is found in that Bernard (from the New World), The Savage (made of the new and old) and some others too - recognises this is hideous and want humanity and connection and to resist the current order. 

is the choice between engineering the state of the world or an island?

I think Huxley says probably no. The populace is not actually stable. The controller says if they read orthello they'd decapitate them. The Alphas and Beta's have enough critical reasoning and self-importance to thinkt heir own ideas matter, and to seek meaning and presumably the lower castes do too, and this concerns the engineers. 

Both Bernard and Helmholtz go to the island in the end, Bernard kicking and screaming before resigning o his fate, Helmholtz accepts it and is intreagued by it. The controller himself nearly met the same fate - he decided long ago to remain the law-maker and indulge in breaking the laws, reading philosophy and the bible in his office.

The Savage - the most thoughtful and effortlessly courageous of all characters exiles himself after being denied exile on the island with his mates - and ultimately chooses suicide. This is defiant - it is a passionate, romantic and tragic death, unlike the unconfronting, mundane and efficient routine deaths in the New World, which are witnessed by flocks of twins during their **Death Conditioning** while they enjoy ecclairs. 






-------------

It is not easy to arrange society this way, and it is not in fact stable. Despite careful engineering from conception, gestation and the nursery and schooling - twelve and a half million dollars is the cost of a new conditioning center(TODO). And even yet, in adulthood Soma. Women take a 'pregnancy substitute', routinely compulsary and taken at leisure. Every effort is made to satisfy (mildly) social passion. 

the hatchery director admits a memory - youa ren't meant to dwell on memories, or be fond of people. This is his undoing. Our time outside the hatchery and conditioning is laced with transgressions like this. Often from the people responsible for writing and implementing the social engineering institutions. 


The lighthouse.


### Aldous Huxley and Utopia (Prisms) - Theadore W.Adorno

### See What You Made Me Do - Jess Hill

Commit message:

notes on huxley and adorno

content/page/november-readings.md, after:

---
title: "November Readings"
date: 2021-12-29T14:33:29+11:00
draft: false
---

# November Readings WIP!

*Brave New World* - **Aldous Huxley** . 
*Aldous Huxley and Utopia (Prisms)* - **Theadore W.Adorno** . 
*See What You Made Me Do* - **Jess Hill**

### **Brave New World - Aldoux Huxley** 

 “Community, Identity, and Stability” this is the Brave New World's answer to the radical bourgeois revolution - not that anyone who exists in this New World understands this deliciously illegal reference - as only very few are even aware of any history (that dangerous stuff - only to be enjoyed like a fine aged Brandy by society's finest).


The New World is some arrangement of a highly centralised State Capitalism. Individuals are subordinate to the 'community' and community is mass participation in consumption and heirarchied work. Division of labour is organised by a globally agreed upon caste system. The fertalising room is our introduction to the biological element of these pillars, then gestation, hatching, the nursery. We then enter the community and already see the conditioning is imperfect - and Soma largely helps tie over that gulf.

Everything is *pneumatic* especially women, but also furniture. Every element have at their core AND OR and XOR logic gates, an appropriate and engineered dynamism.  

Huxley's world is explicit. There are endless mass-produced twins, the mass of people themselves are alike to the products they produce and consume. Their culture and perception neatly standardized. The delivery of the knowledge more formalized than the casual and consentual consumption of these things in the "unfreedom in unrestrained equality" of the old world. 
The New World is unashamed of this - it would be simply inefficient to have it any other way. It's shocking it was ever any other way. 
Instead of cultural norms whispering to us in our dreams, they are *literally* whispered to infants from under their pillows. Instead of lower classes assumed unintelligent due to their lack of access ot education, alcohol and other poisons are poured into their blood surrogates. The lower castes are twins of obsurd quantity - any idea they ever had could never be unique or important, they're all inistinguishable in every sense, colour coded to be sure.

To think there were once mothers and fathers! The Controller can't ask people to imagine, because they can't :

> "The world was full of fathers–was therefore full of misery; full of mothers–therefore of every kind of perversion from sadism to chastity; full of brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts–full of madness and > suicide." ch 3

**Spending Is Better Than Mending**

Our new father is Ford. That antisemitic industrialist who very keenly sought the road to peace and consumer bliss through mass production and consumption. The characters have choice of many different perfumes at any given bathroom and there are plenty of new fashions to adorn - there are only a few sports, highly regulated is the introduction of any new activity. Entertainment is restricted to some synthetic organ that also gives a light show and sometimes fragrances. And Soma, seemingly a mix of MDMA and valium, with no ill side effects, although characters caught offguard without it can't seem to cope with even listening to someone else speak to them. ***A Gram Is Better Than A Damn*** is cheerfully and neurotically expressed if someone appears tired or mildly gloomy, or when Lenina is caught without it having to feel something for once, she repeatedly mutters it like a total psychiatric case. Sex is another appetite to be met regularly surrounded by a strict morality of non-monogamy.

At a social engagement Bernard is asked, did he play electromagnetic golf or obstacle golf earlier? He had to admit he played neither. Highly embarassing to not be engaging in social consumption of people and games alike. The extreme lack of comsumptive choice disguised as choice in BNW is not tiring, though - it's very funny. 

Many elements of the New World have a comedic effect particular to the modern audience. We see our public social media publicised lives and relationships reflected in this work from 1931.
Lenina is routinely disturbed by Bernard wanting to make their plans in private, or spend time one-on-one.

> "Pretty harmless, perhaps; but also pretty disquieting. That mania, to start with, for doing things in private. Which meant, in practice, not doing anything at all. For what was there that one could do in private. (Apart, of course, from going to bed: but one couldn't do that all the time.) Yes, what was > there? Precious little" ch 6

Everything must be public, social a spectical and it must be consumptive, and you must have fun - if you aren't, that's your fault or there must be something wrong with you, possibly in a clinical sense - alcohol in your blood surrogate, perhaps.

**Everyone Belongs To Everyone Else**

The New World sneers at Christianity, it's archaic and illogical and worse of all it is passionate. Passion is ok, in the sense that it is utterly unavoidable (unfortunately) but it must be released in a steady trickle, a sprinkler system with multiple outlets of mist - not a powerful jet. 
There are routine orgys which are the closest thing to a cultural religious experience the youth encounter in the New World. We experience one through Bernard. The Soma is not enough to get him where the others (allegedly) are. He lies. We know the others are lying too. But how can Bernard? Or are they like those apparently happy idiots we sometimes meet? They can't really beleive their own bullshit - why do they insist so aggresively they do? Like Lenina who rocks back and forth saying ***"A Gram Is Better Than A Damn, A Gram Is Better Than A Damn"*** these people are certainly wimpering to themselves ***"Good Vibes Only, Good Vibes Only, Manifest Positive Energy".*** while the world today takes on a more grotesque form by the hour. 

Our comfort is found in that Bernard (from the New World), The Savage (made of the new and old) and some others too - recognises this is hideous and want humanity and connection and to resist the current order. 

is the choice between engineering the state of the world or an island?

I think Huxley says probably no. The populace is not actually stable. The controller says if they read orthello they'd decapitate them. The Alphas and Beta's have enough critical reasoning and self-importance to thinkt heir own ideas matter, and to seek meaning and presumably the lower castes do too, and this concerns the engineers. 

Both Bernard and Helmholtz go to the island in the end, Bernard kicking and screaming before resigning o his fate, Helmholtz accepts it and is intreagued by it. The controller himself nearly met the same fate - he decided long ago to remain the law-maker and indulge in breaking the laws, reading philosophy and the bible in his office.

The Savage - the most thoughtful and effortlessly courageous of all characters exiles himself after being denied exile on the island with his mates - and ultimately chooses suicide. This is defiant - it is a passionate, romantic and tragic death, unlike the unconfronting, mundane and efficient routine deaths in the New World, which are witnessed by flocks of twins during their **Death Conditioning** while they enjoy ecclairs. 






-------------

It is not easy to arrange society this way, and it is not in fact stable. Despite careful engineering from conception, gestation and the nursery and schooling - twelve and a half million dollars is the cost of a new conditioning center(TODO). And even yet, in adulthood Soma. Women take a 'pregnancy substitute', routinely compulsary and taken at leisure. Every effort is made to satisfy (mildly) social passion. 

the hatchery director admits a memory - youa ren't meant to dwell on memories, or be fond of people. This is his undoing. Our time outside the hatchery and conditioning is laced with transgressions like this. Often from the people responsible for writing and implementing the social engineering institutions. 

There is no politics in the world.

The lighthouse.


### Aldous Huxley and Utopia (Prisms) - Theadore W.Adorno
WIP
notes:

adorno says huxley rather flatly equates the mind with traditional culture - Shakespeare. But I mean it's kind of fine -  Shakespeare was enjoyed by everyomne, it's not exclusive or elitist like Opera is. and it's flowery, it makes its own words up, it's like actually the opposite of the BNW 


agree w Adorno that Freud is use inappropriately, reduced to another efficiency expert like Ford. But does he really? maybe it's fair. People DO misunderstand Freud. Everyone hates him.

### See What You Made Me Do - Jess Hill
