content/page/literary/january-2022-readings.md, before:

---
title: "January 2022 Readings"
date: 2022-01-09T13:40:55+11:00
draft: true
topic: monthly-reading
---
# January 2022 Readings NOTES

*Love's Work* - **Gillian Rose** . 
*"Athens and Jerusalum: a tale of three cities"* in **Mourning Becomes the Law** - **Gillian Rose** . 
*“From Speculative to Dialectical Thinking — Hegel and Adorno”* in **Judaism and Modernity** - **Gillian Rose**

-------------------------

### **Love's Work - Gillian Rose** 

Rose's *Loves Work* is a mémoire. There is Death - of loved ones, in Auschwitz, the indomitable. There is Family Trauma, Judaism, Prodestantism, Faith, Love, Cancer, The Work, a taste of regret.  
Rose's own death. 


Vulnerability 
Love
how did rose love?
that predatory woman she mentions, how did she 'love'?
Having loved Imperfectly is just what it is, but Rose steped away from the third, *the work*.

The work undone. Some that she stepped away from, but also work she was denied. 

Cancer

>“I asked Mr Wong, “What makes a man become a gynaecologist?” He replied, “Some men love women, and some men hate women”—no admission of unresolved equivocation in that taut response. And what makes a man become a specialist in gynaecological cancer (a field “invented” in the last twenty years)? He will always be breaking the bad news to individual women concerning their female anatomy. And what makes a man a specialist and co-author of the latest, standard textbook on ovarian cancer? Mr Wong answers pragmatically, “I was good with my hands but didn’t want to become an obstetrician like my father.” (82)


opinions on ovarian cancer are re-shared with us. We judge for ourselves from the varying meaning and quality of thought, *although I'd say they probably arrive in descending quality*.


>“I could compose a divan of divination, an anthology of aetiologies:

>>Camille Paglia (American author and media personality): “Nature’s revenge on the ambitious, childless woman.”

>>Braham Murray (theatre director, my first cousin): “Your inspiration poisoned at source”

>>John Petty (Provost of Coventry Cathedral and faith healer): “Transgenerational haunting and possession.”

>>Ian Florian (Principal, College of Traditional Acupuncture): “Imbalance of energies necessary for a woman to sustain success in the world.”

>Your betrayal twice by family; ancient, unacknowledged and unmourned dead; the philosophy of Hegel and Adorno; recent bereavements; the wrong kinds of relationship with men; too much whiskification; too little red wine and garlic. Hold on, I take garlic in my coffee…Well!” (84)

Rose does not dignify *alternative medicine* with any undue attention. Good. 


What's the current state of thought?

> "revealed religion, enlightenment rationalism, and postmodern relativism" (135)


-------------------------

*"Athens and Jerusalum: a tale of three cities"* in **Mourning Becomes the Law** - **Gillian Rose**  

-------------------------

*“From Speculative to Dialectical Thinking — Hegel and Adorno”* in **Judaism and Modernity** - **Gillian Rose**

Commit message:

some notes on from athens to jerusalum

content/page/literary/january-2022-readings.md, after:

---
title: "January 2022 Readings"
date: 2022-01-09T13:40:55+11:00
draft: true
topic: monthly-reading
---
# January 2022 Readings NOTES

*Love's Work* - **Gillian Rose** . 
*"Athens and Jerusalum: a tale of three cities"* in **Mourning Becomes the Law** - **Gillian Rose** . 
*“From Speculative to Dialectical Thinking — Hegel and Adorno”* in **Judaism and Modernity** - **Gillian Rose**

-------------------------

### **Love's Work - Gillian Rose** 

Rose's *Loves Work* is a mémoire. There is Death - of loved ones, in Auschwitz, the indomitable. There is Family Trauma, Judaism, Prodestantism, Faith, Love, Cancer, The Work, a taste of regret.  
Rose's own death. 


Vulnerability 
Love
how did rose love?
that predatory woman she mentions, how did *she* 'love'?

Having loved Imperfectly is just what it is, but Rose steped away from the third, *the work*.
The work undone. Some that she stepped away from, but also work she was denied. 

Cancer

>“I asked Mr Wong, “What makes a man become a gynaecologist?” He replied, “Some men love women, and some men hate women”—no admission of unresolved equivocation in that taut response. And what makes a man become a specialist in gynaecological cancer (a field “invented” in the last twenty years)? He will always be breaking the bad news to individual women concerning their female anatomy. And what makes a man a specialist and co-author of the latest, standard textbook on ovarian cancer? Mr Wong answers pragmatically, “I was good with my hands but didn’t want to become an obstetrician like my father.” (82)


opinions on ovarian cancer are re-shared with us. We judge for ourselves from the varying meaning and quality of thought, *they are of descending quality*.


>“I could compose a divan of divination, an anthology of aetiologies:

>>Camille Paglia (American author and media personality): “Nature’s revenge on the ambitious, childless woman.”

>>Braham Murray (theatre director, my first cousin): “Your inspiration poisoned at source”

>>John Petty (Provost of Coventry Cathedral and faith healer): “Transgenerational haunting and possession.”

>>Ian Florian (Principal, College of Traditional Acupuncture): “Imbalance of energies necessary for a woman to sustain success in the world.”

>Your betrayal twice by family; ancient, unacknowledged and unmourned dead; the philosophy of Hegel and Adorno; recent bereavements; the wrong kinds of relationship with men; too much whiskification; too little red wine and garlic. Hold on, I take garlic in my coffee…Well!” (84)

Rose does not dignify *alternative medicine* with any undue attention. Good. 


What's the current state of thought?

> "revealed religion, enlightenment rationalism, and postmodern relativism" (135)


-------------------------

*"Athens and Jerusalum: a tale of three cities"* in **Mourning Becomes the Law** - **Gillian Rose**  



We don't know what power is anymore.

The third city, the reproduction of things we don't want to reproduce, creeps in to the vision of the second city, the New Jerusalum.

a fourth city? Auschwitz 

Auschwitz is the third city too.

>Analysis of this kind, as opposed to refusal of analysis implicit in the demonising argument, does not see Auschwitz as the end-product and telos of modern rationality. It understands the plans as arising out of, and as falling back into, the ambitions and the tensions, the utopianism and the violence, the reason and the muddle, which is the outcome of the struggle between the politics and the anti-politics of the city. This is the *the third city* - the city in which we all live and with which we are too familiar (34)

 holy shit

van Pelt - historian who was allowed to work on the archives of Auschwitz, he worked on the 'city plans' no one had worked with before. Even before his work was released (presumably published now) it was opposed.


*Bhuddist Judaism*

Emannuel Levinas and *the other*, recognition.
rose says -> the loss of actor and the other.


-------------------------

*“From Speculative to Dialectical Thinking — Hegel and Adorno”* in **Judaism and Modernity** - **Gillian Rose**
